Forms : HTML forms are used to collect users input and send it to server for processing.
eg: signup form, login form, application form , feedback form, contact form etc..,

Basic Form Structure: 
   form: form element is the container element of the whole form
   input: input is a self closing tag which allows users to enter data. HTML Inputs have different attributes such as
     --> type: it defines the type of content the input takes
     --> placeholder :  it is the dummytext that holds the place and is used to make user understand what data needs to be entered
     --> id : it is used to identify the input element uniquely. if forms connection with label
     --> value : it is used to keep certain predefined value to inputs. used in case of hidden,radio,checkbox inputs
     --> name: it is used to send the data to server with a name
   label:  label is used to make the user understand what content need to be enetered. it's for attribute can connect to input's Id.
   button: button is used to make clickable actions such as submitting data
     button with type 'submit'  --> used to submit the form
     button with type 'reset'   --> used to reset the form


Different Types of Inputs: 
   text -- used for textual inputs like username
   email -- used for email addresses
   password -- used for passwords or secret informations such as keys/OTPS
   number -- used for numerical data such as phone number , age
   date -- used for selecting a date like DOB
   time -- used for selecting time 
   datetime-local  -- used for selecting date& time together
   month -- used for select specific month
   week -- used for selecting specific week
   file -- used for uploaing a file ('accept' attribute allows us to accept a specific format file)
   color -- used to selecting a color
   hidden -- used to send data to server without user's intervention when form submitted
   range -- range is used to select a specific range using range bar
   radio -- used to select only one value among choices
      always radio inputs should have name and value. All radio buttons of similar purpose should have same name attribute. label should be connected to inputs Id
   checkbox --  used to select multiple values among the choices
      always checkbox inputs should have name and value. All checkbox buttons of similar purpose should have same name attribute. label should be connected to inputs Id
   select  -- used to select one or many options among the choices
      Each Option will have 'option' tag with a value
      To select multiple options we can use multiple attribute for select


Form Validation:  
    We can validate the form using following attributes such as
    i. Required: it is used to make the input element mandatory to submit the data
    ii.  minlength/maxlength : it is used to restrict or range the minimum or maximum number of characters in textual inputs
    iii. min/max : it is used to keep a range for numerical values
    iv. readonly : it is used to make the form /input data only readable. user cannot overwrite it
    v. disabled : it is used to make the inputs disabled and its data will not be submitted4
    vi. pattern : it is used to verify whether the input is satisfying the pattern or not
    Patterns are created using regular expressions.
    


Day2:
===========
   Form Attributes:
        Form element will have 2 attributes such as
      i. action: it defines the path of file to which form is submitted
      ii. method: it defines how the data should be submitted to server
          GET: By default , method value is "GET". it makes input data passed through URL (data will be visible in URL)
          POST : it makes the input data passed through BODY. (data will not be visible in URL)
          POST can be used in login, signup, otp or any info which needs to secret.GET can used when data needs to be public like  search

   textarea: textarea is used to take large set of data. its width always fixed to certain columns
   we use textarea whenever we need to enter large set of data
   we can even specify columns and rows of data needed using cols, rows attributes

   fieldset : fieldset is used to wrap the whole form with a border.
   legend: legend works like a gate to the fieldset

   optgroup : optgroup is used to combine options as a group. it uses 'label' attribute to define the options














   



     











  

